The President:
March is Women's History Month,
a time not only to celebrate the
progress that women have made,
but also the women throughout
our history who have made
that progress possible.
One inspiring American who comes
to mind is Eleanor Roosevelt.
In 1961, the former First Lady
was unhappy about the lack of
women in government, so she
marched up to President Kennedy
and handed him a three-page list
of women who were qualified for
top posts in his administration.
This led the President to select
Mrs. Roosevelt as the head of a
new commission to look at the
status of women in America,
and the unfairness they
routinely faced in their lives.
Though she passed away before
the commission could finish its
work, the report they released
spurred action across the country.
It helped galvanize a movement
led by women that would help
make our society a
more equal place.
It's been almost 50 years
since the Roosevelt commission
published its findings -- and
there have been few similar
efforts by the government
in the decades that followed.
That's why, last week,
here at the White House,
we released a new comprehensive
report on the status of women in
the spirit of the one that was
released half a century ago.
There was a lot of positive news
about the strides we've made,
even in recent years.
For example, women have caught up
with men in seeking higher education.
In fact, women today are more
likely than men to attend and
graduate from college.
Yet, there are also reminders of how
much more work remains to be done.
Women are still more likely to
live in poverty in this country.
In education, there are areas
like math and engineering where
women are vastly outnumbered
by their male counterparts.
This is especially troubling,
for we know that to compete with
nations around the world, these
are the fields in which we need
to harness the talents
of all our people.
That's how we'll win the future.
And, today, women still earn on
average only about 75 cents for
every dollar a man earns.
That's a huge discrepancy.
And at a time when folks across
this country are struggling to
make ends meet -- and many
families are just trying to get
by on one paycheck
after a job loss --
it's a reminder that achieving
equal pay for equal work isn't
just a women's issue.
It's a family issue.
In one of my first
acts as President,
I signed a law so that women
who've been discriminated
against in their salaries could have
their day in court to make it right.
But there are steps we should
take to prevent that from
happening in the first place.
That's why I was so disappointed
when an important bill to give
women more power to
stop pay disparities --
the Paycheck Fairness Act -- was
blocked by just two votes in the Senate.
And that's why I'm going to keep
up the fight to pass the reforms
in that bill.
Achieving equality and
opportunity for women isn't just
important to me as President.
It's something I care about
deeply as the father of two
daughters who wants to see his
girls grow up in a world where
there are no limits to
what they can achieve.
As I've traveled
across the country,
visiting schools and
meeting young people,
I've seen so many girls
passionate about science and
other subjects that were
traditionally not open to them.
We even held a science fair
here at the White House,
where I met a young
woman named Amy Chyao.
She was only 16 years old, but
she was actually working on a
treatment for cancer.
She never thought,
"Science isn't for me."
"Girls can't do that."
She was just interested
in solving a problem.
And because someone was
interested in giving her a
chance, she has the
potential to improve lives.
That tells me how
far we've come.
But it also tells me we have to
work even harder to close the
gaps that still exist, and to
uphold that simple American
ideal: we are all equal and
deserving of the chance to
pursue our own
version of happiness.
That's what Eleanor Roosevelt
was striving toward half a
century ago.
That's why this
report matters today.
And that's why, on behalf of all
our daughters and all our sons,
we've got to keep making
progress in the years ahead.
Thanks for listening.